Restructured project: Moved files into case_studies/CARD, removed red… (#107)
JRaviLab/MolEvolvR: case_studies/CARD/CARD_data/CARD-Download-README.txt

Reviewer: @Cateline, thanks for adding this README. Out of curiosity, are these descriptions already paraphrased from the original source (CARD), or yet to be?

Author: The descriptions are from the original source (CARD) and have not been paraphrased yet

# CARD README

> ## Source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Source
```

> This dataset was downloaded from the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD) in 2024-10 at https://card.mcmaster.ca/download/0/broadstreet-v3.3.0.tar.bz2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This dataset and associated README were downloaded from the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD) (2024-10) at https://card.mcmaster.ca/download/0/broadstreet-v3.3.0.tar.bz2.
```

prediction at the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database" Nucleic Acids Research, 
51, D690-D699. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36263822/

## CARD SHORT NAMES

The CARD database uses standardized abbreviations, known as CARD Short Names, for AMR gene names associated with Antibiotic Resistance Ontology terms. These names are created for compatibility across data files and outputs from the Resistance Gene Identifier (RGI). Short Names for genes with 15 or fewer characters retain the original gene name, while longer names are abbreviated to uniquely represent each gene or protein. All CARD Short Names replace whitespace with underscores. For pathogen names, CARD follows the convention of capitalizing the first letter of the genus followed by the first three letters of the species in lowercase. Where applicable, CARD Short Names adopt formats such as “pathogen_gene,” “pathogen_gene_drug,” or “gene_drug.” Full lists of these abbreviations are available in the provided files:

shortname_antibiotics.tsv
shortname_pathogens.tsv"

## FASTA

The FASTA files included here contain retrieved sequences of antimicrobial resistance genes.

> ## Data Files Downloaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data files downloaded
```

> aro_index.tsv

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`aro_index.tsv`
```

This file contains an index of ARO (Antibiotic Resistance Ontology) identifiers with associated GenBank accessions. Each entry includes information used to link antibiotic resistance genes to GenBank sequences.

> shortname_antibiotics.tsv

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`shortname_antibiotics.tsv`
```

Contains standardized abbreviations for antibiotics used in CARD’s short names. These abbreviations, which follow conventions from the American Society for Microbiology (ASM) and additional custom terms, provide a uniform naming system for antibiotics referenced within CARD data.

> shortname_pathogens.tsv

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`shortname_pathogens.tsv`
```

> CARD Download README

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# CARD README
```

Reviewer: add source link right below with what what was downloaded and which `YYYY-MM`

Use or reproduction of these materials, in whole or in part, by any commercial 
organization whether or not for non-commercial (including research) or commercial purposes
is prohibited, except with written permission of McMaster University. Commercial uses are
offered only pursuant to a written license and user fee. To obtain permission and begin 
the licensing process, see http://card.mcmaster.ca/about.

CITATION:

Alcock et al. 2023. "CARD 2023: expanded curation, support for machine learning, and resistome 
prediction at the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database" Nucleic Acids Research, 
51, D690-D699. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36263822/

> CARD SHORT NAMES:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CARD SHORT NAMES
```

compatibility purposes and is not ontologically relevant. Each ontology term with an 
associated AMR detection model has a CARD Short Name that appears in CARD data files 
and output generated by RGI. If the original gene name is less than 15 characters, the 
CARD short name is identical; if the gene name is greater than 15 characters, the CARD 
Short Name has been abbreviated by CARD curators specifically to identify the proper 
gene or protein name. All CARD Short Names are unique and have whitespace characters 
replaced by underscore characters. The convention for pathogen names is capitalized 
first letter of the genus followed by the lowercase first three letters of the species 
name. The antibiotic abbreviations are from https://journals.asm.org/journal/aac/abbreviations
plus some custom abbreviations by the CARD curators. Simple CARD Short Names often do not
involve either, e.g. CTX-M-15, but where applicable the CARD Short Names follow pathogen_gene
or pathogen_gene_drug. The full lists of abbreviations can be found in the enclosed files: 

"shortname_antibiotics.tsv"
"shortname_pathogens.tsv"

> FASTA:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## FASTA
```

Nucleotide and corresponding protein FASTA downloads are available as separate files for 
each model type.  For example, the "protein homolog" model type contains sequences of
antimicrobial resistance genes that do not include mutation as a determinant of resistance
- these data are appropriate for BLAST analysis of metagenomic data or searches excluding 
secondary screening for resistance mutations. In contrast, the "protein variant" model 
includes reference wild type sequences used for mapping SNPs conferring antimicrobial 
resistance - without secondary mutation screening, analyses using these data will include 
false positives for antibiotic resistant gene variants or mutants.

> MODELS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## MODELS
```

The file "card.json" contains the complete data for all of CARD's AMR detection models, 
including reference sequences, SNP mapping data, model parameters, and ARO classification.
"card.json" is used by the Resistance Gene Identifier software. 

Values for "High Confidence TB", "Moderate Confidence TB", "Minimal Confidence TB", and
"Indeterminate Confidence TB" were obtained from https://platform.reseqtb.org.

> INDEX FILES:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## INDEX FILES
```
